---
title: Provisioning an NTP Server
date: 2021-11-05 08:00:00 -0600
author: joseph
---

One of the first things I did upon receiving my new [Framework laptop]({% post_url 2021-10-22-framework %}) was to provision a personal NTP server.

The Network Time Protocol allows for networked systems to synchronize their clocks between themselves. However, I would rather *not* have my devices connect to Google or Cloudflare, so instead I decided to provision an NTP server on my home network and have my machines connect to that.

## Virtual Machine

First, I provisioned a [new virtual machine]({% post_url essay/2021-10-29-openbsd-proxmox %}) with OpenBSD 7.0 installed.

Then, I configured `/etc/ntpd.conf` to connect to the servers I wanted:

```conf
listen on 10.10.10.10

servers pool.ntp.example.org
sensor *

constraint from "ntp.example1.org"
constraint from "ntp.example2.org"
```

Make sure the `listen` keyword is there or your server won't be listening for any requests from your other machines.

We also need to configure the server's packet filter configuration, or `/etc/pf.conf`:

```conf
if = "vio0"
set skip on lo
block return
pass in on $if inet proto icmp
pass in on $if inet proto {tcp udp} to port ntp
pass out on $if
```

The first three lines are pretty straightforward, while the fourth line allows me to ping the server. The fifth line allows the `ntp` port through, or port 123.

## Local DNS

Right now I use `pihole` to configure local DNS, though that may change in the future. In any case, I added an entry for `ntp.home.lan` to point to the virtual machine's IP address.

I could simply use the VM's IP address directly, but I'd rather use something human readable, and this gives me the option of setting something once on all my devices and changing the configuration on the `pihole` if the network topology needs to change.

## The Framework

All that I need to do now is point my Framework's `/etc/ntpd.conf` file to the local NTP server.

```conf
server ntp.home.lan
```

And then restart [`ntpd(8)`](https://man.openbsd.org/ntpd) on the Framework:

```sh
rcctl restart ntpd
```

I can check the status of the NTP daemon through [`ntpctl(8)`](https://man.openbsd.org/ntpctl):

```sh
$ ntpctl -sa
1/1 peers valid, clock synced, stratum 4

peer
   wt tl st  next  poll          offset       delay      jitter
10.10.10.10 ntp.home.lan
 *  1 10  3   28s   33s        -0.276ms     2.456ms     2.214ms
```

Or I can just [`tail(1)`](https://man.openbsd.org/tail) the logs:

```sh
$ tail -f /var/log/daemon
Nov  4 12:44:06 devbox ntpd[75687]: ntp engine ready
Nov  4 12:44:28 devbox ntpd[75687]: peer 10.10.10.10 now valid
Nov  4 12:49:03 devbox ntpd[75687]: clock is now synced
```

## Conclusion

I have to say that I love my [homelab]({% post_url essay/2021-09-03-infrastructure %})! It allows me to easily provision new servers with a click of a button, and I can have new infrastructure and services easily configured in OpenBSD.

Next I hope to tackle a `git` or `smtp` server.
