---
title: Burn Rate
date: 2021-06-25 08:00:00 -0600
author: joseph
---

Burn rate is a term that start ups use to describe how long the company will last. They have a certain amount of capital, either from a seed round or series funding, and they're spending a certain amount of cash each month. How much they're spending versus how much they have will tell you how long the company has before they need to become profitable, because they'll go out of business otherwise.

I used to work for a start-up called Fernish. Normally, I wouldn't specifically name companies I used to work for, but I feel like the way I was treated was so egregious that any sort of ["company loyalty"]({% post_url 2021-06-18-moving-day %}) was nothing more than a thin veneer anyway. So I don't mind naming names in this one instance.

Anywho, I was fired from this company, only the second time [I was fired from a company]({% post_url 2021-05-28-sucker-punch %}), only three months after being hired. Not because of anything specific I had done. There were only good things being said about the work I was doing. The reason they gave was because the company had run out of money.

This to me, with the benefit of hindsight, seemed like an excuse.

I mean, how can this be? Unless the leadership were severely incompetent, which isn't out of the realm of possibility, they knew how much money they had in the bank and how much they were spending each month in terms of employee salaries, building leases, et cetera.

No, the real reason I was fired, I believe, was because I had asked for too much money during salary negotiations.

At the time, there were only two other full time developers and one contractor. The two full time developers were junior developers with little experience in developing an application on their own. The contractor was from Pivotal, one of those consultancy shops that startups like to use that often does more harm than good. But his contract had run out, and he had every intention of moving on to other projects.

I don't have any proof, but I'm pretty sure the full time developers weren't asking for as much money as me. And because the company wasn't hitting their far too optimistic targets, their next funding round was in serious jeopardy.

So the other two developers were retained, while I was, very politely, shown the door.

All because I had asked for a salary that I thought I was worth, given my level of skill and seniority. This is the game that companies like to play. As soon as you become too expensive to retain, they'll replace you with someone who is far less skilled, yes, but also someone who is much cheaper.

The only lesson I can glean from this story, and has become something of a theme these last few weeks in my stories, is that your employer will always always *always* screw you.

Not because they are malicious, though that may certainly be the case, but because their interests don't align with yours and *never will*.
